1. [Provision an Azure SQL database to store application data](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/provision-azure-sql-db/)

    **Why choose Azure SQL Database?**<br/>
    - **Convenience**<br/>
    Setting up SQL Server on a VM or on physical hardware requires you to know about hardware and software requirements. You'll need to understand the latest security best practices and manage operating system and SQL Server patches on a routine basis. You also need to manage backup and data retention issues yourself.<br/>
    With Azure SQL Database, we manage the hardware, software updates, and OS patches for you. All you specify is the name of your database and a few options. You'll have a running SQL database in minutes.
  
    - **Cost**<br/>
    Because we manage things for you, there are no systems for you to buy, provide power for, or otherwise maintain.<br/>
    Azure SQL Database has several pricing options. These pricing options enable you to balance performance versus cost. You can start for just a few dollars a month.
    
    - **Scale**<br/>
    With Azure SQL Database, you can adjust the performance and size of your database on the fly when your needs change.
    
    - **Security**
    Azure SQL Database comes with a firewall that's automatically configured to restrict connections from the Internet.<br/>
    You can allow access to specific IP addresses that you trust. Doing so allows you to use Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, or other tools to manage your Azure SQL database.<br/>
    
    **Azure SQL logical server**<br/>
    When you create your first Azure SQL database, you also create an Azure SQL logical server. Think of a logical server as an administrative container for your databases. You can control logins, firewall rules, and security policies through the logical server. You can also override these policies on each database within the logical server.<br/>
    
    **Azure SQL Database has two purchasing models:**
    - **DTU**<br/>
    DTU stands for Database Transaction Unit, and is a combined measure of compute, storage, and IO resources. Think of the DTU model as a simple, preconfigured purchase option.<br/>
    Because your logical server can hold more than one database, there's also the idea of eDTUs, or elastic Database Transaction Units. This option enables you to choose one price, but allow each database in the pool to consume fewer or greater resources depending on current load.
    
    - **vCore**<br/>
    vCores are Virtual cores, which give you greater control over the compute and storage resources that you create and pay for.<br/>
    While the DTU model provides fixed combinations of compute, storage, and IO resources, the vCore model enables you to configure resources independently. For example, with the vCore model you can increase storage capacity but keep the existing amount of compute and IO throughput.<br/>
    
    **What are SQL elastic pools?**<br/>
    When you create your Azure SQL database, you can create a SQL elastic pool.<br/>
    SQL elastic pools relate to eDTUs. They enable you to buy a set of compute and storage resources that are shared among all the databases in the pool. Each database can use the resources they need, within the limits you set, depending on current load.<br/>
    
    **What is collation?**<br/>
    Collation refers to the rules that sort and compare data. Collation helps you define sorting rules when case sensitivity, accent marks, and other language characteristics are important.<br/>
    Let's take a moment to consider what the default collation, SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS, means.
    - **Latin1_General** refers to the family of Western European languages.
    - **CP1** refers to code page 1252, a popular character encoding of the Latin alphabet.
    - **CI** means that comparisons are case insensitive. For example, "HELLO" compares equally to "hello".
    - **AS** means that comparisons are accent sensitive. For example, "résumé" doesn't compare equally to "resume".
    
    
