1. [Introduction to Azure virtual machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/intro-to-azure-virtual-machines/)
    
    **Virtual networks (VNets)** are used in Azure to provide private connectivity between Azure Virtual Machines and other Azure services. VMs and services that are part of the same virtual network can access one another. By default, services outside the virtual network cannot connect to services within the virtual network. You can, however, configure the network to allow access to the external service, including your on-premises servers.<br/>
    When you set up a virtual network, you specify the available address spaces, subnets, and security. If the VNet will be connected to other VNets, you must select address ranges that are not overlapping. This is the range of private addresses that the VMs and services in your network can use. You can use unrouteable IP addresses such as 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, or 192.168.0.0/16, or define your own range. Azure will treat any address range as part of the private VNet IP address space if it is only reachable within the VNet, within interconnected VNets, and from your on-premises location. If someone else is responsible for the internal networks, you should work with that person before selecting your address space to make sure there is no overlap and to let them know what space you want to use, so they don’t try to use the same range of IP addresses.<br/>
    
    **Segregate your network**<br/>
    After deciding the virtual network address space(s), you can create one or more subnets for your virtual network. You do this to break up your network into more manageable sections. For example, you might assign 10.1.0.0 to VMs, 10.2.0.0 to back-end services, and 10.3.0.0 to SQL Server VMs. Azure reserves the first four addresses and the last address in each subnet for its use.
    
    **Secure the network**<br/>
    By default, there is no security boundary between subnets, so services in each of these subnets can talk to one another. However, you can set up Network Security Groups (NSGs), which allow you to control the traffic flow to and from subnets and to and from VMs. NSGs act as software firewalls, applying custom rules to each inbound or outbound request at the network interface and subnet level. This allows you to fully control every network request coming in or out of the VM.
    
    **What is an Azure resource?**<br/>
    An Azure resource is a manageable item in Azure. Just like a physical computer in your datacenter, VMs have several elements that are needed to do their job:
    - The VM itself
    - Storage account for the disks
    - Virtual network (shared with other VMs and services)
    - Network interface to communicate on the network
    - Network Security Group(s) to secure the network traffic
    - Public Internet address (optional)<br/>
    Azure will create all of these resources if necessary, or you can supply existing ones as part of the deployment process. Each resource needs a name that will be used to identify it. If Azure creates the resource, it will use the VM name to generate a resource name.<br/><br/>
    
    **Decide the location for the VM**<br/>
    Azure has datacenters all over the world filled with servers and disks. These datacenters are grouped into geographic regions ('West US', 'North Europe', 'Southeast Asia', etc.) to provide redundancy and availability.<br/>
    When you create and deploy a Azure resource, you must select a region where you want the resources (CPU, storage, etc.) to be allocated. This lets you place your VMs as close as possible to your users to improve performance and to meet any legal, compliance, or tax requirements.<br/>
    Two other things to think about regarding the location choice. First, the location can limit your available options. Each region has different hardware available and some configurations are not available in all regions. Second, there are price differences between locations. If your workload isn't bound to a specific location, it can be very cost effective to check your required configuration in multiple regions to find the lowest price.
    
    **Determine the size of the VM**<br/>
    Rather than specify processing power, memory, and storage capacity independently, Azure provides different VM sizes that offer variations of these elements in different sizes.<br/>
    The best way to determine the appropriate VM size is to consider the type of workload your VM needs to run. Based on the workload, you're able to choose from a subset of available VM sizes. Workload options are classified as follows on Azure:
    - **General Purpose** VMs are designed to have a balanced CPU-to-memory ratio. Ideal for testing and development, small to medium databases, and low to medium traffic web servers.
    - **Compute optimized** VMs are designed to have a high CPU-to-memory ratio. Suitable for medium traffic web servers, network appliances, batch processes, and application servers.
    - **Memory optimized** VMs are designed to have a high memory-to-CPU ratio. Great for relational database servers, medium to large caches, and in-memory analytics.
    - **Storage optimized** VMs are designed to have high disk throughput and IO. Ideal for VMs running databases.
    - **GPU** VMs are specialized virtual machines targeted for heavy graphics rendering and video editing. These VMs are ideal options for model training and inferencing with deep learning.
    - **High performance compute** is the fastest and most powerful CPU virtual machines with optional high-throughput network interfaces.<br/><br/>
    
    Azure allows you to change the VM size when the existing size no longer meets your needs. You can upgrade or downgrade the VM - as long as your current hardware configuration is allowed in the new size. This provides a fully agile and elastic approach to VM management.<br/>
    The VM size can be changed while the VM is running, as long as the new size is available in the current hardware cluster the VM is running on. The Azure portal makes this obvious by only showing you available size choices. The command line tools will report an error if you attempt to resize a VM to an unavailable size. Changing a running VM size will automatically reboot the machine to complete the request.<br/>
    If you stop and deallocate the VM, you can then select any size available in your region since this removes your VM from the cluster it was running on.<br/>
    Be careful about resizing production VMs - they will be rebooted automatically which can cause a temporary outage and change some configuration settings such as the IP address.<br/>
    
    **Storage for the VM**
    All Azure virtual machines will have at least two virtual hard disks (VHDs). The first disk stores the operating system, and the second is used as temporary storage. You can add additional disks to store application data; the maximum number is determined by the VM size selection (typically two per CPU). It's common to create one or more data disks, particularly since the OS disk tends to be quite small. Also, separating out the data to different VHDs allows you to manage the security, reliability, and performance of the disk independently.<br/>
    The data for each VHD is held in Azure Storage as page blobs, which allows Azure to allocate space only for the storage you use. It's also how your storage cost is measured; you pay for the storage you are consuming.<br/>
    When you create disks, you will have two options for managing the relationship between the storage account and each VHD. You can choose either unmanaged disks or managed disks.
    - **Unmanaged disks** - With unmanaged disks, you are responsible for the storage accounts that are used to hold the VHDs that correspond to your VM disks. You pay the storage account rates for the amount of space you use. A single storage account has a fixed-rate limit of 20,000 I/O operations/sec. This means that a storage account is capable of supporting 40 standard virtual hard disks at full utilization. If you need to scale out with more disks, then you'll need more storage accounts, which can get complicated.
    - **Managed disks** - Managed disks are the newer and recommended disk storage model. They elegantly solve this complexity by putting the burden of managing the storage accounts onto Azure. You specify the size of the disk, up to 4 TB, and Azure creates and manages both the disk and the storage. You don't have to worry about storage account limits, which makes managed disks easier to scale out.<br/><br/>
    
    **Understanding the pricing model**<br/>
    There are two separate costs the subscription will be charged for every VM: compute and storage. By separating these costs, you scale them independently and only pay for what you need.<br/>
    **Compute costs** - Compute expenses are priced on a per-hour basis but billed on a per-minute basis. For example, you are only charged for 55 minutes of usage if the VM is deployed for 55 minutes. You are not charged for compute capacity if you stop and deallocate the VM since this releases the hardware. The hourly price varies based on the VM size and OS you select. The cost for a VM includes the charge for the Windows operating system. Linux-based instances are cheaper because there is no operating system license charge.You might be able to save money by reusing existing licenses for Windows with the **Azure Hybrid benefit**.<br/>
    
    You're able to choose from two payment options for compute costs.
    - **Pay as you go** - With the pay-as-you-go option, you pay for compute capacity by the second, with no long-term commitment or upfront payments. You're able to increase or decrease compute capacity on demand as well as start or stop at any time. Prefer this option if you run applications with short-term or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted. For example, if you are doing a quick test, or developing an app in a VM, this would be the appropriate option.
    - **Reserved Virtual Machine Instances** - The Reserved Virtual Machine Instances (RI) option is an advance purchase of a virtual machine for one or three years in a specified region. The commitment is made up front, and in return, you get up to 72% price savings compared to pay-as-you-go pricing. RIs are flexible and can easily be exchanged or returned for an early termination fee. Prefer this option if the VM has to run continuously, or you need budget predictability, and you can commit to using the VM for at least a year.<br/><br/>
    
    **Storage costs** - You are charged separately for the storage the VM uses. The status of the VM has no relation to the storage charges that will be incurred; even if the VM is stopped/deallocated and you aren’t billed for the running VM, you will be charged for the storage used by the disks.
    
    **Select an operating system**<br/>
    Azure provides a variety of OS images that you can install into the VM, including several versions of Windows and flavors of Linux. As mentioned earlier, the choice of OS will influence your hourly compute pricing as Azure bundles the cost of the OS license into the price.<br/>
    If you are looking for more than just base OS images, you can search the Azure Marketplace for more sophisticated install images that include the OS and popular software tools installed for specific scenarios. For example, if you needed a new WordPress site, the standard technology stack would consist of a Linux server, Apache web server, a MySQL database, and PHP. Instead of setting up and configuring each component, you can leverage a Marketplace image and install the entire stack all at once.<br/>
    Finally, if you can't find a suitable OS image, you can create your disk image with what you need, upload it to Azure storage, and use it to create an Azure VM. Keep in mind that Azure only supports 64-bit operating systems.<br/>
    
    [**Good to Read** Azure Resource Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/intro-to-azure-virtual-machines/4-describe-other-create-vm-options)
    
    **What is an availability set?**
    An availability set is a logical feature used to ensure that a group of related VMs are deployed so that they aren't all subject to a single point of failure and not all upgraded at the same time during a host operating system upgrade in the datacenter. VMs placed in an availability set should perform an identical set of functionalities and have the same software installed.<br/>
    *Microsoft offers a 99.95% external connectivity service level agreement (SLA) for multiple-instance VMs deployed in an availability set. That means that for the SLA to apply, there must be at least two instances of the VM deployed within an availability set.*<br/>
    You can create availability sets through the Azure portal in the disaster recovery section. Also, you can build them using Resource Manager templates, or any of the scripting or API tools. When you place VMs into an availability set, Azure guarantees to spread them across **Fault Domains** and **Update Domains**.
    - **Fault domain** is a logical group of hardware in Azure that shares a common power source and network switch. You can think of it as a rack within an on-premises datacenter. The first two VMs in an availability set will be provisioned into two different racks so that if the network or the power failed in a rack, only one VM would be affected. Fault domains are also defined for managed disks attached to VMs.
    - **Update domain** is a logical group of hardware that can undergo maintenance or be rebooted at the same time. Azure will automatically place availability sets into update domains to minimize the impact when the Azure platform introduces host operating system changes. Azure then processes each update domain one at a time.<br/>
    
    Availability sets are a powerful feature to ensure the services running in your VMs are always available to your customers. However, they aren't foolproof. What if something happens to the data or the software running on the VM itself? For that, we'll need to look at other disaster recovery and backup techniques.
    
    **Failover across locations**<br/>
    You can also replicate your infrastructure across sites to handle regional failover. Azure Site Recovery replicates workloads from a primary site to a secondary location. If an outage happens at your primary site, you can fail over to a secondary location. This failover allows users to continue to access your applications without interruption. You can then fail back to the primary location once it's up and running again. Azure Site Recovery is about replication of virtual or physical machines; it keeps your workloads available in an outage.<br/>
    While there are many attractive technical features to Site Recovery, there are at least two significant business advantages:
    - Site Recovery enables the use of Azure as a destination for recovery, thus eliminating the cost and complexity of maintaining a secondary physical datacenter.
    - Site Recovery makes it incredibly simple to test failovers for recovery drills without impacting production environments. This makes it easy to test your planned or unplanned failovers. After all, you don’t have a good disaster recovery plan if you’ve never tried to failover.<br/><br/>
    The recovery plans you create with Site Recovery can be as simple or as complex as your scenario requires. They can include custom PowerShell scripts, Azure Automation runbooks, or manual intervention steps. You can leverage the recovery plans to replicate workloads to Azure, easily enabling new opportunities for migration, temporary bursts during surge periods, or development and testing of new applications.<br/>
    Azure Site Recovery works with Azure resources, or Hyper-V, VMware, and physical servers in your on-premises infrastructure and can be a key part of your organization’s business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) strategy by orchestrating the replication, failover, and recovery of workloads and applications if the primary location fails.
    
    **Azure Backup** is a backup as a service offering that protects physical or virtual machines no matter where they reside: on-premises or in the cloud.<br/>
    Azure Backup can be used for a wide range of data backup scenarios, such as the following:
    - Files and folders on Windows OS machines (physical or virtual, local or cloud)
    - Application-aware snapshots (Volume Shadow Copy Service)
    - Popular Microsoft server workloads such as Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft SharePoint, and Microsoft Exchange
    - Native support for Azure Virtual Machines, both Windows, and Linux
    - Linux and Windows 10 client machines<br/><br/>
    
    **Advantages of using Azure Backup**
    Traditional backup solutions don't always take full advantage of the underlying Azure platform. The result is a solution that tends to be expensive or inefficient. The solution either offers too much or too little storage, does not offer the correct types of storage, or has cumbersome and long-winded administrative tasks. Azure Backup was designed to work in tandem with other Azure services and provides several distinct benefits.<br/>
    Automatic storage management. Azure Backup automatically allocates and manages backup storage and uses a pay-as-you-use model. You only pay for what you use.
    - Unlimited scaling. Azure Backup uses the power and scalability of Azure to deliver high availability.
    - Multiple storage options. Azure Backup offers locally redundant storage where all copies of the data exist within the same region and geo-redundant storage where your data is replicated to a secondary region.
    - Unlimited data transfer. Azure Backup does not limit the amount of inbound or outbound data you transfer. Azure Backup also does not charge for the data that is transferred.
    - Data encryption. Data encryption allows for secure transmission and storage of your data in Azure.
    - Application-consistent backup. An application-consistent backup means that a recovery point has all required data to restore the backup copy. Azure Backup provides application-consistent backups.
    - Long-term retention. Azure doesn't limit the length of time you keep the backup data.<br/><br/>
    
    **Using Azure Backup**<br/>
    Azure Backup utilizes several components that you download and deploy to each computer you want to back up. The component that you deploy depends on what you want to protect.
    - Azure Backup agent
    - System Center Data Protection Manager
    - Azure Backup Server
    - Azure Backup VM extension<br/><br/>
    
    Azure Backup uses a Recovery Services vault for storing the backup data. A vault is backed by Azure Storage blobs, making it a very efficient and economical long-term storage medium. With the vault in place, you can select the machines to back up and define a backup policy (when snapshots are taken and for how long they’re stored).
