2. [Create a Linux virtual machine in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/create-linux-virtual-machine-in-azure/)
    
    **Mapping storage to disks**<br/>
    Azure uses virtual hard disks (VHDs) to represent physical disks for the VM. VHDs replicate the logical format and data of a disk drive but are stored as page blobs in an Azure Storage account. You can choose on a per disk basis what type of storage it should use (SSD or HDD). This allows you to control the performance of each disk, likely based on the I/O you plan to perform on it.<br/>
    By default, two virtual hard disks (VHDs) will be created for your Linux VM:
    - **The operating system disk**: This is your primary drive, and it has a maximum capacity of 2048 GB. It will be labeled as /dev/sda by default.
    - **A temporary disk**: This provides temporary storage for the OS or any apps. On Linux virtual machines, the disk is /dev/sdb and is formatted and mounted to /mnt by the Azure Linux Agent. It is sized based on the VM size and is used to store the swap file. The temporary disk is not persistent. You should only write data to this disk that is not critical to the system.<br/><br/>
    
    **What about data?**<br/>
    You can store data on the primary drive along with the OS, but a better approach is to create dedicated data disks. You can create and attach additional disks to the VM. Each disk can hold up to 32,767 gibibytes (GiB) of data, with the maximum amount of storage determined by the VM size you select. An interesting capability is to create a VHD image from a real disk. This allows you to easily migrate existing information from an on-premises computer to the cloud.<br/>
    *Azure virtual disk sizes are measured in Gibibytes (GiB), which are not the same as Gigabytes (GB); one GiB is approximately 1.074 GB. Therefore, to obtain an approximate equivalent of your virtual disk size in GB, multiply the size in GiB by 1.074, and that will return a size in GB that is relatively close. For example, 32,767 GiB would be approximately 35,183 GB.*
    
    **Unmanaged vs. managed disks**<br/>
    With unmanaged disks, you are responsible for the storage accounts that are used to hold the VHDs that correspond to your VM disks. You pay the storage account rates for the amount of space you use. A single storage account has a fixed rate limit of 20,000 I/O operations/sec. This means that a single storage account is capable of supporting 40 standard virtual hard disks at full throttle. If you need to scale out, then you need more than one storage account, which can get complicated.<br/>
    Managed disks are the newer and recommended disk storage model. They elegantly solve this complexity by putting the burden of managing the storage accounts onto Azure. You specify the disk type (Premium or Standard) and the size of the disk, and Azure creates and manages both the disk and the storage it uses. You don't have to worry about storage account limits, which makes them easier to scale out. They also offer several other benefits:
    - Increased reliability: Azure ensures that VHDs associated with high-reliability VMs will be placed in different parts of Azure Storage to provide similar levels of resilience.
    - Better security: Managed disks are real managed resources in the resource group. This means they can use role-based access control to restrict who can work with the VHD data.
    - Snapshot support: Snapshots can be used to create a read-only copy of a VHD. You have to shut down the owning VM, but creating the snapshot only takes a few seconds. Once it's done, you can power on the VM and use the snapshot to create a duplicate VM to troubleshoot a production issue or roll back the VM to the point in time that the snapshot was taken.
    - Backup support: Managed disks can be automatically backed up to different regions for disaster recovery with Azure Backup without affecting the service of the VM.<br/><br/>
    
    **Planning your network**<br/>
    When you create a new VM, you will have the option of creating a new virtual network or using an existing VNet in your region. Having Azure create the network together with the VM is simple, but it's likely not ideal for most scenarios. It's better to plan your network requirements up front for all the components in your architecture and create the VNet structure separately. Then, create the VMs and place them into the already-created VNets. We'll look more at virtual networks later in this module.<br/>
    
    **Azure VM IP addresses**<br/>
    As we saw a moment ago, Azure VMs communicate on a virtual network. They can also have an optional public IP address assigned to them. With a public IP, we can interact with the VM over the Internet. Alternatively, we can set up a virtual private network (VPN) that connects our on-premises network to Azure - letting us securely connect to the VM without exposing a public IP.<br/>
    Public IP addresses in Azure are dynamically allocated by default. That means the IP address can change over time - for VMs the IP address assignment happens when the VM is restarted. You can pay more to assign static addresses, if you want to connect directly to an IP address and need to ensure that the IP address will not change.
    
    
