2. [Create serverless logic with Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/create-serverless-logic-with-azure-functions/)

    **What is serverless compute?**
    Serverless compute can be thought of as a function as a service (FaaS), or a microservice that is hosted on a cloud platform. Your business logic runs as functions and you don't have to manually provision or scale infrastructure. The cloud provider manages infrastructure. Your app is automatically scaled out or down depending on load. Azure has several ways to build this sort of architecture. The two most common approaches are Azure Logic Apps and Azure Functions, which we focus on in this module.
    
    **Benefits of serverless compute solution**<br/>
    
    **Avoids over-allocation of infrastructure** - Suppose you've provisioned VM servers and configured them with enough resources to handle your peak load times. When the load is light, you are potentially paying for infrastructure you're not using. Serverless computing helps solve the allocation problem by scaling up or down automatically, and you're only billed when your function is processing work.
    
    **Stateless logic** - Stateless functions are great candidates for serverless compute; function instances are created and destroyed on demand. If state is required, it can be stored in an associated storage service.
    
    **Event driven** - Functions are event driven. This means they run only in response to an event (called a "trigger"), such as receiving an HTTP request, or a message being added to a queue. You configure a trigger as part of the function definition. This approach simplifies your code by allowing you to declare where the data comes from (trigger/input binding) and where it goes (output binding).
    
    **Funtions can be used in traditional compute environments** - Functions are a key component of serverless computing, but they are also a general compute platform for executing any type of code. Should the needs of your app change, you can take your project and deploy it in a non-serverless environment, which gives you the flexibility to manage scaling, run on virtual networks, and even completely isolate your functions.
    
    **Drawbacks of serverless compute solution**<br/>
    
    **Execution time** - By default, functions have a timeout of 5 minutes. This timeout is configurable to a maximum of 10 minutes. If your function requires more than 10 minutes to execute, you can host it on a VM. Additionally, if your service is initiated through an HTTP request and you expect that value as an HTTP response, the timeout is further restricted to 2.5 minutes. Finally, there's also an option called Durable Functions that allows you to orchestrate the executions of multiple functions without any timeout.
    
    **Execution frequency** - The second characteristic is execution frequency. If you expect your function to be executed continuously by multiple clients, it would be prudent to estimate the usage and calculate the cost of using functions accordingly. It might be cheaper to host your service on a VM.
    
    *While scaling, only one function app instance can be created every 10 seconds, for up to 200 total instances. Keep in mind, each instance can service multiple concurrent executions, so there is no set limit on how much traffic a single instance can handle. Different types of triggers have different scaling requirements, so research your choice of trigger and investigate its limits.*
    <br/>
    <br/>
    
    [**Exercise - Create a function app in the Azure portal**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/create-serverless-logic-with-azure-functions/3-create-an-azure-functions-app-in-the-azure-portal?pivots=javascript)
    
    **Choosing a service plan**<br/>
    
    **Consumption service plan** - This is the plan that you choose when using the Azure serverless application platform. The Consumption service plan provides automatic scaling and bills you when your functions are running. The Consumption plan comes with a configurable timeout period for the execution of a function. By default, it is 5 minutes, but may be configured to have a timeout as long as 10 minutes.
    
    **Azure App Service plan** - This plan allows you to avoid timeout periods by having your function run continuously on a VM that you define. When using an App Service plan, you are responsible for managing the app resources the function runs on, so this is technically not a serverless plan. However, it may be a better choice if your functions are used continuously or if your functions require more processing power or execution time than the Consumption plan can provide.
    
    **Storage account requirements**<br/>
    
    When you create a function app, it must be linked to a storage account. You can select an existing account or create a new one. The function app uses this storage account for internal operations such as logging function executions and managing execution triggers. On the Consumption service plan, this is also where the function code and configuration file are stored.
    
    
    **Triggers**<br/>
    The type of event that starts the function is called a trigger. You must configure a function with exactly one trigger. Azure supports triggers for the following services:
    
    |Service|Trigger Description|
    |-------|-------------------|
    |Blob storage|Start a function when a new or updated blob is detected.|
    |Azure Cosmos DB|Start a function when inserts and updates are detected.|
    |Event Grid|Start a function when an event is received from Event Grid.|
    |HTTP|Start a function with an HTTP request.|
    |Microsoft Graph Events|Start a function in response to an incoming webhook from the Microsoft Graph. Each instance of this trigger can react to one Microsoft Graph resource type.|
    |Queue storage|Start a function when a new item is received on a queue. The queue message is provided as input to the function.|
    |Service Bus|Start a function in response to messages from a Service Bus queue.|
    |Timer|Start a function on a schedule.|
    
    **Bindings**<br/>
    Bindings are a declarative way to connect data and services to your function. Bindings know how to talk to different services, which means you don't have to write code in your function to connect to data sources and manage connections. The platform takes care of that complexity for you as part of the binding code. Each binding has a direction - your code reads data from input bindings and writes data to output bindings. Each function can have zero or more bindings to manage the input and output data processed by the function.
    
    **Monitoring dashboard**<br/>
    The Azure portal provides a monitoring dashboard available if you turn on the Application Insights integration. This monitor dashboard provides a quick way to view the log of function executions populated by Application Insights.
    <br/>
    <br/>
    
    [**Exercise - Add logic to the function app**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/create-serverless-logic-with-azure-functions/5-add-logic-to-the-function-app?pivots=javascript)
    
    **Securing HTTP triggers**<br/>
    When you create a HTTP triggered function, you select the authorization level. By default, it's set to "Function", which requires a function-specific API key, but it can also be set to "Admin" to use a global "master" key, or "Anonymous" to indicate that no key is required. You can also change the authorization level through the function properties after creation. You should pass the function-specific API key in the header of an HTTP request as 'x-funcion-key' being the key.    
