3. [Execute an Azure Function with triggers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/execute-azure-function-with-triggers/)

    **What is a trigger?** - [Refer 2. Create serverless logic with Azure Functions](2.%20Create%20serverless%20logic%20with%20Azure%20Functions.md)
    
     **What is a binding?** - [Refer 2. Create serverless logic with Azure Functions](2.%20Create%20serverless%20logic%20with%20Azure%20Functions.md)
    
    **What is a CRON expression?** 
    A CRON expression is a string that consists of six fields that represent a set of times.<br/>
    The order of the six fields in Azure is: {second} {minute} {hour} {day} {month} {day of the week}.<br/>
    For example, a CRON expression to create a trigger that executes every five minutes looks like: __0 */5 * * * *__ <br/>
    
    **Special characters in CRON expression**
    |Special Character|Meaning|Example|
    |-----------------|-------|-------|
    |\*\*|Selects every value in a field|An asterisk "\*" in the day of the week field means every day.|
    |,|Separates items in a list|A comma "1,3" in the day of the week field means just Mondays (day 1) and Wednesdays (day 3).|
    |-|Specifies a range|A hyphen "10-12" in the hour field means a range that includes the hours 10, 11, and 12.|
    |/|Specifies an increment|A slash "\*/10" in the minutes field means an increment of every 10 minutes.|
    
    [**Exercise - Create a timer trigger**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/execute-azure-function-with-triggers/4-create-timer-trigger?pivots=csharp)
    
    **What is an HTTP trigger Authorization level?** - An HTTP trigger Authorization level is a flag that indicates if an incoming HTTP request needs an API key for authentication reasons.<br/>
    
    There are three Authorization levels:
    - Function
    - Anonymous
    - Admin
    <br/>
    The **Function** and **Admin** levels are "key" based. There are two types of keys: function and host. Function keys are specific to a function. Host keys apply to all functions inside the function app. If your Authorization level is set to **Function**, you can use either a function or a host key. If your Authorization level is set to **Admin**, you must supply a host key.<br/>
    The **Anonymous** level means that there's no authentication required.
    
    [**Exercise - Create an HTTP trigger**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/execute-azure-function-with-triggers/6-create-http-trigger?pivots=csharp)
    
    **What is Azure Blob storage?** - Azure Blob storage is an object storage solution that's designed to store large amounts of unstructured data.<br/>
    For example, Azure Blob storage is great at doing things like:
    - Storing files
    - Serving files
    - Streaming video and audio
    - Logging data
    <br/>
    There are three types of blobs: block blobs, append blobs, and page blobs. Block blobs are the most common type. They allow you to store text or binary data efficiently. Append blobs are like block blobs, but they're designed more for append operations like creating a log file that's being constantly updated. Finally, page blobs are made up of pages and are designed for frequent random read and write operations.<br/>
    <br/>
    
    [**Exercise - Create a Blob trigger**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/execute-azure-function-with-triggers/8-create-blob-trigger)
