4. [Chain Azure Functions together using input and output bindings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/chain-azure-functions-data-using-bindings/)

    **What is a binding?** - [Refer 2. Create serverless logic with Azure Functions](2.%20Create%20serverless%20logic%20with%20Azure%20Functions.md)
    
    **Types of bindings**
    - **Input binding** - An input binding is a connection to a data source. Our function can read data from these inputs.
    - **Output binding** - An output binding is a connection to a data destination. Our function can write data to these destinations.
    
    **Triggers** are special types of input bindings that cause a function to execute.
    
    **Types of supported bindings**<br/>
    A binding type can be used as an input, an output or both. For example, a function can write to Azure Blob Storage output binding, but a blob storage update could trigger another function.<br/>
    Some common binding types are listed below:
    - Blob Storage
    - Azure Service Bus Queues
    - Azure Cosmos DB
    - Azure Event Hubs
    - External Files
    - External Tables
    - HTTP endpoints
    
    These types are just a sample. There are more, plus functions have an extensibility model to add more bindings.
    
    **Binding properties**
    - **Name** - Defines the function parameter through which you access the data. For example, in a queue input binding, this is the name of the function parameter that receives the queue message content.
    - **Type** - Identifies the type of binding, i.e., the type of data or service we want to interact with.
    - **Direction** - Indicates the direction data is flowing, i.e., is it an input or output binding?
    - **Connection** - Provides the name of an app setting key that contains the connection string. Bindings use connection strings stored in app settings to keep secrets out of the function code. It is only used for bindings which require connection string.<br/>
    
    **Create a binding**<br/>
    Bindings are defined in JSON. A binding is configured in your function's configuration file, which is named function.json and lives in the same folder as your function code. Following is a sample of binding definition.<br/>
    
    ```json
    ...
    {
      "name": "headshotBlob",
      "type": "blob",
      "path": "thumbnail-images/{filename}",
      "connection": "HeadshotStorageConnection",
      "direction": "in"
    },
    ...
    ```
    
    [**Exercise - Explore input and output binding types**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/chain-azure-functions-data-using-bindings/3-explore-input-and-output-binding-types-portal-lab?pivots=javascript)
    
    **What is a binding expression?** - A binding expression is specialized text in function.json, function parameters, or code that is evaluated when the function is invoked to yield a value. For example, if you have a Service Bus Queue binding, you could use a binding expression to get the name of the queue from App Settings.<br/>
    
    Types of binding expressions
    - App settings
    - Trigger file name
    - Trigger metadata
    - JSON payloads
    - New GUID
    - Current date and time
    <br/>
    Most expressions are identified by wrapping them in curly braces. However, app setting binding expressions are wrapped in percent signs rather than curly braces. For example if the blob output binding path is %Environment%/newblob.txt and the Environment app setting value is Development, a blob will be created in the Development container.
    
    [**Exercise - Read data with input bindings**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/chain-azure-functions-data-using-bindings/5-read-data-with-input-bindings-portal-lab?pivots=javascript)
    
    [**Exercise - Write data with output bindings**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/chain-azure-functions-data-using-bindings/7-write-data-with-output-bindings-portal-lab?pivots=javascript)
    
    **Combining input and output bindings**<br/>
    It's possible to apply multiple bindings to a single function. This allows you to define both input and output bindings, and the input and output can even be the same binding type.

