5. [Create a long-running serverless workflow with Durable Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/create-long-running-serverless-workflow-with-durable-functions/)

    **What is Durable functions?** - Durable functions are an extension of Azure Functions. Whereas Azure Functions operate in a stateless environment, Durable Functions can retain state between function calls. This approach enables you to simplify complex stateful executions in a serverless-environment.<br/>
    
    Durable Functions scales as needed, and provides a cost effective means of implementing complex workflows in the cloud. Some benefits of using Durable Functions include:
    - They enable you to write event driven code. A durable function can wait asynchronously for one or more external events, and then perform a series of tasks in response to these events.
    - You can chain functions together. You can implement common patterns such as fan-out/fan-in, which uses one function to invoke others in parallel, and then accumulate the results.
    - You can orchestrate and coordinate functions, and specify the order in which functions should execute.
    - The state is managed for you. You don't have to write your own code to save state information for a long-running function.
    
    Durable functions allows you to define stateful workflows using an Orchestration function. An orchestration function provides these extra benefits:
    - You can define the workflows in code. You don't need to write a JSON description or use a workflow design tool.
    - Functions can be called both synchronously and asynchronously. Output from the called functions is saved locally in variables and used in subsequent function calls.
    - Azure checkpoints the progress of a function automatically when the function awaits. Azure may choose to dehydrate the function and save its state while the function waits, to preserve resources and reduce costs. When the function starts running again, Azure will rehydrate it and restore its state.
    <br/>
    
    **Function types**<br/>
    You can use three durable function types: client, orchestrator, and activity.<br/>
    
    - **Client** functions are the entry point for creating an instance of a Durable Functions orchestration. They can run in response to an event from many sources, such as a new HTTP request arriving, a message being posted to a message queue, an event arriving in an event stream. You can write them in any of the supported languages.
    - **Orchestrator** functions describe how actions are executed, and the order in which they are run. You write the orchestration logic in code (C# or JavaScript).
    - **Activity** functions are the basic units of work in a durable function orchestration. An activity function contains the actual work performed by the tasks being orchestrated.<br/>
    <br/>
    
    **Application patterns**<br/>
    You can use Durable Functions to implement many common workflow patterns. These patterns include:
    - **Function chaining** - In this pattern, the workflow executes a sequence of functions in a specified order. The output of one function is applied to the input of the next function in the sequence. The output of the final function is used to generate a result.
    - **Fan out/fan in** - This pattern runs multiple functions in parallel and then waits for all the functions to finish. The results of the parallel executions can be aggregated or used to compute a final result.
    - **Async HTTP APIs** - This pattern addresses the problem of coordinating state of long-running operations with external clients. An HTTP call can trigger the long-running action. Then, it can redirect the client to a status endpoint. The client can learn when the operation is finished by polling this endpoint.
    - **Monitor** - This pattern implements a recurring process in a workflow, possibly looking for a change in state. For example, you could use this pattern to poll until specific conditions are met.
    - **Human interaction** - This pattern combines automated processes that also involve some human interaction. Human interaction can be incorporated using timeouts and compensation logic that runs if the human fails to interact correctly within a specified response time. An approval process is an example of a process that involves human interaction.
    
    [**Exercise - Create a workflow using Durable Functions**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/create-long-running-serverless-workflow-with-durable-functions/4-exercise-create-a-workflow-using-durable-functions)
    
    **Timers in Durable Functions**<br/>
    Durable Functions provides timers for use in the orchestrator functions. They can implement delays or set up timeouts for asynchronous actions. Use durable timers in orchestrator functions instead of the **setTimeout()** and **setInterval()** functions.<br/>
    You create a durable timer by calling the **createTimer** method of the DurableOrchestrationContext. This method returns a task that resumes on a specified date and time.
    
    **Using timers for delay**<br/>
    The following example illustrates how to use durable timers for delay. The example sends a reminder every day for 10 days.
    
    ```js
    const df = require("durable-functions");
    const moment = require("moment");
    
    module.exports = df.orchestrator(function*(context) {
       for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
           const dayOfMonth = context.df.currentUtcDateTime.getDate();
           const deadline = moment.utc(context.df.currentUtcDateTime).add(1, 'd');
           yield context.df.createTimer(deadline.toDate());
           yield context.df.callActivity("SendReminder");
       }
    });
    ```
    Always use **currentUtcDateTime** to obtain the current date and time, instead of **Date.now** or **Date.UTC**.
    
    **Using timers for timeout**<br/>
    The following example illustrates how to use durable timers for timeout. Executing a different path if a timeout occurs. In this example, the function waits until either the GetQuote activity function completes or the deadline* timer expires. If the activity function completes the code follows the success case, otherwise it follows the timeout case.
    
    ```js
   const df = require("durable-functions");
   const moment = require("moment");

   module.exports = df.orchestrator(function*(context) {
       const deadline = moment.utc(context.df.currentUtcDateTime).add(30, "s");

       const activityTask = context.df.callActivity("GetQuote");
       const timeoutTask = context.df.createTimer(deadline.toDate());

       const winner = yield context.df.Task.any([activityTask, timeoutTask]);
       if (winner === activityTask) {
           // success case
           timeoutTask.cancel();
           return true;
       }
       else
       {
           // timeout case
           return false;
       }
   });
    ```
    
    [**Exercise - Add a durable timer to manage a long-running task**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/create-long-running-serverless-workflow-with-durable-functions/6-exercise-add-a-durable-timer-to-manage-a-long-running-task)
