7. [Develop, test, and deploy an Azure Function with Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/develop-test-deploy-azure-functions-with-visual-studio/)

    **Structure of an Azure Function**<br/>
    An Azure Function is implemented as a static class. The class provides a static, asynchronous method named Run, which acts as the entry point for the function.<br/>
    <br/>
    The parameters passed to the Run method provide the context for the trigger. In the case of an HTTP trigger, the function receives an HttpRequest object. This object contains the header and body of the request. You can access the data in the request using the same techniques available in any HTTP application. The attributes applied to this attribute specify the authorization requirements (Anonymous in this case), and the HTTP operations to which the Azure function responds (GET and POST).<br/>
    <br/>
    ```cs
    public static class Function1
    {
        [FunctionName("Function1")]
        public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(
            [HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Anonymous, "get", "post", Route = null)] HttpRequest req,
            ILogger log)
        {
            log.LogInformation("C# HTTP trigger function processed a request.");

            string name = req.Query["name"];

            string requestBody = await new StreamReader(req.Body).ReadToEndAsync();
            dynamic data = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject(requestBody);
            name = name ?? data?.name;

            return name != null
                ? (ActionResult)new OkObjectResult($"Hello, {name}")
                : new BadRequestObjectResult("Please pass a name on the query string or in the request body");
        }
    }
    ```
    The function returns a value containing any output data and results, wrapped in an IActionResult object. The value is returned in the body of the HTTP response for the request.<br/>
    <br/>
    Different types of trigger receive different input parameters and return types. The next example shows the code generated for a Blob trigger. In this example, the contents of the blob is made accessible through a Stream object, and the name of the blob is also provided. No data is returned by the trigger; its purpose is to read and process the data in the named blob:
    ```cs
    public static class Function2
    {
        [FunctionName("Function2")]
        public static void Run([BlobTrigger("samples-workitems/{name}", Connection = "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx")]Stream myBlob, string name, ILogger log)
        {
            log.LogInformation($"C# Blob trigger function Processed blob\n Name:{name} \n Size: {myBlob.Length} Bytes");
        }
    }
    ```
    In all cases, an Azure Function is passed an ILogger parameter. The function can use this parameter to write log messages, which the function app will write to storage for later analysis.<br/>
    <br/>
    An Azure Function also contains metadata that specify the type of the trigger and any other specific information and security requirements. You can modify this metadata using the HttpTrigger, BlobTrigger, or other trigger attributes, as shown in the examples. The FunctionName attribute that precedes the function is an identifier for the function used by the function app. This name doesn't have to be the same as the name of the function, but it's good practice to keep them synchronized to avoid confusion.<br/>
    
    [**Exercise - Create and test a simple Azure Function locally with Visual Studio**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/develop-test-deploy-azure-functions-with-visual-studio/3-exercise-develop-and-test-azure-functions-locally)
    
    **Publish a simple Azure Function**<br/>
    An Azure Function runs in the cloud in the context of an Azure Function App. A function app is a container that specifies the operating system for running an Azure Function, together with the resources available, such as the memory, computing power, and disk space. The Azure Function App also provides the public URL for running your functions. Behind the scenes, an Azure Function App is a collection of one or more virtual machines, running a web server. When you publish an Azure Function, you deploy it to these virtual machines.<br/>
    There are several of options available for publishing an Azure Function. In this unit, you'll learn about some of these options.
    - **Deploy from Visual Studio** - Azure Functions tools for Visual Studio enable you to deploy an Azure Function directly from Visual Studio. The Azure Functions template provides a Publish wizard. Using this wizard, you connect to your Azure account, and either specify an existing Azure Function App, or create a new one. The functions in your project are rebuilt and then deployed to the Azure Function App.
    - **Continuous deployment** - Azure Functions makes it easy to deploy your function app using App Service continuous integration. Azure Functions integrates with BitBucket, Dropbox, GitHub, and Azure DevOps. This enables a workflow where function code updates made by using one of these integrated services triggers deployment to Azure.
    - **Zip deployment** - Azure Function can be deployed from a zip file using the push deployment technique. You can do this with the Azure CLI, or by using the REST interface.
    
    [**Exercise - Publish a simple Azure Function**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/develop-test-deploy-azure-functions-with-visual-studio/5-exercise-publish-azure-functions)
    
    [**Exercise - Unit test an Azure Function**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/develop-test-deploy-azure-functions-with-visual-studio/6-unit-test-azure-functions)
