9. [Enable automatic updates in a web application using Azure Functions and SignalR Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/automatic-update-of-a-webapp-using-azure-functions-and-signalr/)
    
    [**Exercise - Analyze the limitations of a polling-based web app**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/automatic-update-of-a-webapp-using-azure-functions-and-signalr/3-exercise-analyze-limitations-of-polling-in-a-web-app)
    
    **SignalR and persistent connections**<br/>
    In contrast to polling, a more favorable design features persistent connections between the client and server. Establishing a persistent connection allows the server to push data to the client at will. The on-demand nature of the connection reduces network traffic and load on the server. SignalR allows you to easily add this type of architecture to your application.<br/>
    <br/>
    SignalR is an abstraction for a series of technologies that allows your app to enjoy two-way communication between the client and server. SignalR handles connection management automatically, and lets you broadcast messages to all connected clients simultaneously, like a chat room. You can also send messages to specific clients. The connection between the client and server is persistent, unlike a classic HTTP connection, which is re-established for each communication.<br/>
    <br/>
    A key benefit of the abstraction provided by SignalR is the way it supports "transport" fallbacks. A transport is method of communicating between the client and server. SignalR connections begin with a standard HTTP request. As the server evaluates the connection, the most appropriate communication method (transport) is selected. Transports are chosen depending on the APIs available on the client.<br/>
    <br/>For clients that support HTML 5, the WebSockets API transport is used by default. If the client doesn't support WebSockets, then SignalR falls back to Server Sent Events (also known as EventSource). For older clients, Ajax long polling or Forever Frame (IE only) is used to mimic a two-way connection.<br/>
    <br/>
    The abstraction layer offered by SignalR provides two benefits to your application. The first advantage is future-proofing your app. As the web evolves and APIs superior to WebSockets become available, your application doesn't need to change. You could update to a version of SignalR that supports any new APIs and your application code won't need an overhaul.<br/>
    <br/>
    The second benefit is that SignalR allows your application to gracefully degrade depending on supported technologies of the client. If it doesn't support WebSockets, then Server Sent Events are used. If the client can't handle Server Sent Events, then it uses Ajax long polling, and so on.
    
    [**Exercise – Enable automatic updates in a web application using SignalR Service**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/automatic-update-of-a-webapp-using-azure-functions-and-signalr/5-exercise-enable-automatic-updates-in-a-web-app-using-signalr)
    
    **Use a storage account to host a static website**<br/>
    Azure Storage includes a feature where you can place files in a specific storage container, which makes them available for HTTP requests. This feature, known as static website support makes hosting publicly available web pages a simple process.<br/>
    <br/>
    When you copy files to a storage container named $web, those files are available to web browsers via a secure server using the https://<ACCOUNT_NAME>.<ZONE_NAME>.web.core.windows.net/<FILE_NAME> URI scheme.
    
    [**Exercise - Use a storage account to host a static website**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/automatic-update-of-a-webapp-using-azure-functions-and-signalr/7-exercise-host-a-static-website-using-a-storage-account)
