1. [Choose a messaging model in Azure to loosely connect your services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/choose-a-messaging-model-in-azure-to-connect-your-services/)
    
    **What is a Message?**<br/>
    In the terminology of distributed applications, messages have the following characteristics:
    - A message contains raw data, produced by one component, that will be consumed by another component.
    - A message contains the data itself, not just a reference to that data.
    - The sending component expects the message content to be processed in a certain way by the destination component. The integrity of the overall system may depend on both sender and receiver doing a specific job.
    
    **What is an Event?**<br/>
    Events are lighter weight than messages, and are most often used for broadcast communications. The components sending the event are known as publishers, and receivers are known as subscribers.<br/>
    With events, receiving components will generally decide in which communications they are interested, and will "subscribe" to those events. The subscription is managed by an intermediary, like Azure Event Grid or Azure Event Hubs. When publishers send an event, the intermediary will route that event to interested subscribers. This pattern is known as a "publish-subscribe architecture." It's not the only way to deal with events, but it is the most common.<br/>
     <br/>
    Events have the following characteristics:
    - An event is a lightweight notification that indicates that something happened.
    - The event may be sent to multiple receivers, or to none at all.
    - Events are often intended to "fan out," or have a large number of subscribers for each publisher.
    - The publisher of the event has no expectation about the action a receiving component takes.
    - Some events are discrete units and unrelated to other events.
    - Some events are part of a related and ordered series.
     <br/> 
    **How to choose messages or events?**
    Events are more likely to be used for broadcasts and are often ephemeral, meaning a communication might not be handled by any receiver if none is currently subscribing. Messages are more likely to be used where the distributed application requires a guarantee that the communication will be processed.<br/>
    <br/>
    For each communication, consider the following question: **Does the sending component expect the communication to be processed in a particular way by the destination component?**<br/>
    If the answer is yes, choose to use a message. If the answer is no, you may be able to use events.
