2. [Implement message-based communication workflows with Azure Service Bus](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/implement-message-workflows-with-service-bus/)
    
    **Creating a Queue in Service Bus**<br/>
    - **Message time to live** - Message time to live determines how long a message will stay in the queue before it expires and is removed or dead lettered. When sending messages it is possible to specify a different time to live for only that message. This default will be used for all messages in the queue which do not specify a time to live for themselves.
    - **Locked duration** - Sets the amount of time that a message is locked for other receivers. After its lock expires, a message pulled by one receiver becomes available to be pulled by other receivers. Defaults to 30 seconds, with a maximum of 5 minutes.
    - **Enable duplicate detection** - Enabling duplicate detection configures your queue to keep a history of all messages sent to the queue for a configurable amount of time. During that interval, your queue will not accept any duplicate messages. Enabling this property guarantees exactly-once delivery over a user-defined span of time.
    - **Enable dead lettering on message expiration** - Dead lettering messages involves holding messages that cannot be successfully delivered to any receiver to a separate queue after they have expired. Messages do not expire in the dead letter queue, and it supports peek-lock delivery and all transactional operations.
    - **Enable sessions** - Service bus sessions allow ordered handling of unbounded sequences of related messages. With sessions enabled a queue can guarantee first-in-first-out delivery of messages.
     **Enable partitioning** - Partitions a queue across multiple message brokers and message stores. Disconnects the overall throughput of a partitioned entity from any single message broker or messaging store. This property is not modifiable after a queue has been created.
     
     [**Exercise - Implement a Service Bus topic and queue**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/implement-message-workflows-with-service-bus/3-exercise-implement-a-service-bus-topic-and-queue)
     
     **Code with topics vs. code with queues**<br/>
     If you want every message sent to be delivered to all subscribing components, you'll use topics. Writing code that uses topics is a way to replace queues. You will use the same Microsoft.Azure.ServiceBus NuGet package, configure connection strings, and use asynchronous programming patterns.<br/>
     However, you'll use the TopicClient class instead of the QueueClient class to send messages and the SubscriptionClient class to receive messages.
     
     [**Exercise - Write code that uses Service Bus queues**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/implement-message-workflows-with-service-bus/5-exercise-write-code-that-uses-service-bus-queues)
     
     **Setting filters on subscriptions**<br/>
     If you want to control that specific messages sent to the topic are delivered to particular subscriptions, you can place filters on each subscription in the topic. <br/>
     Filters can be one of three types:
     - **Boolean Filters** - The *TrueFilter* ensures that all messages sent to the topic are delivered to the current subscription. The *FalseFilter* ensures that none of the messages are delivered to the current subscription. (This effectively blocks or switches off the subscription.)
     - **SQL Filters** A SQL filter specifies a condition by using the same syntax as a *WHERE* clause in a SQL query. Only messages that return *True* when evaluated against this subscription will be delivered to the subscribers.
     - **Correlation Filters** A correlation filter holds a set of conditions that are matched against the properties of each message. If the property in the filter and the property on the message have the same value, it is considered a match.
     
     [**Exercise - Write code that uses Service Bus topics**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/implement-message-workflows-with-service-bus/7-exercise-write-code-that-uses-service-bus-topics)
