4. [Enable reliable messaging for Big Data applications using Azure Event Hubs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/enable-reliable-messaging-for-big-data-apps-using-event-hubs/)
    
    **Consumer groups**<br/>
    An Event Hub consumer group represents a specific view of an Event Hub data stream. By using separate consumer groups, multiple subscriber applications can process an event stream independently, and without affecting other applications. However, the use of many consumer groups isn't a requirement, and for many applications, the single default consumer group is sufficient.
    
    **Pricing**<br/>
    There are three pricing tiers for Azure Event Hubs: Basic, Standard, and Dedicated. The tiers differ in terms of supported connections, the number of available Consumer groups, and throughput. When using Azure CLI to create an Event Hubs namespace, if you don't specify a pricing tier, the default of Standard (20 Consumer groups, 1000 Brokered connections) is assigned.
    
    **Defining an Event Hubs namespace**<br/>
    An Event Hubs namespace is a containing entity for managing one or more Event Hubs. Creating an Event Hubs namespace typically involves the following configuration:
    - Define namespace-level settings.
      Certain settings such as namespace capacity (configured using throughput units), pricing tier, and performance metrics are defined at the namespace level. These settings are applicable for all the Event Hubs within that namespace. If you don't define these settings, a default value is used: 1 for capacity and Standard for pricing tier.<br/>
      Keep the following aspects in mind:
      - You can't change the throughput unit once you set it.
      - You must balance your configuration against your Azure budget expectations.
      - You might consider configuring different Event Hubs for different throughput requirements. For example, if you have a sales data application and you're planning for two Event Hubs, it would make sense to use a separate namespace for each hub.<br/>
      You'll configure one namespace for high throughput collection of real-time sales data telemetry and one namespace for infrequent event log collection. This way, you only need to configure (and pay for) high throughput capacity on the telemetry hub.
    - Select a unique name for the namespace. The namespace is accessible through this URL: namespace.servicebus.windows.net
    - Defining the following optional properties:
      - Enable Kafka. This option enables Kafka applications to publish events to the Event Hub.
      - Make this namespace zone redundant. Zone-redundancy replicates data across separate data centers with their independent power, networking, and cooling infrastructures.
      - Enable Auto-Inflate and Auto-Inflate Maximum Throughput Units. Auto-Inflate provides an automatic scale-up option by increasing the number of throughput units up to a maximum value. This option is useful to avoid throttling in situations when incoming or outgoing data rates exceed the currently set number of throughput units.
      
    **Configuring a new Event Hub**<br/>
    After you create the Event Hubs namespace, you can create an Event Hub. When creating a new Event Hub, there are several mandatory parameters.<br/>
    The following parameters are required to create an Event Hub:
    - **Event Hub name** - Event Hub name that is unique within your subscription and:
      - Is between 1 and 50 characters long
      - Contains only letters, numbers, periods, hyphens, and underscores
      - Starts and ends with a letter or number
    - **Partition Count** - The number of partitions required in an Event Hub (between 2 and 32). The partition count should be directly related to the expected number of concurrent consumers and can't be changed after the hub has been created. The partition separates the message stream so that consumer or receiver applications only need to read a specific subset of the data stream. If not defined, this value defaults to 4.
    - **Message Retention** - The number of days (between 1 and 7) that messages will remain available if the data stream needs to be replayed for any reason. If not defined, this value defaults to 7.<br/>
    You can also optionally configure an Event Hub to stream data to an Azure Blob storage or Azure Data Lake Store account.
    
    [**Exercise - Use the Azure CLI to Create an Event Hub**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/enable-reliable-messaging-for-big-data-apps-using-event-hubs/3-exercise-create-an-event-hub-using-azure-cli)
    
    [**Exercise - Configure applications to send or receive messages through an Event Hub**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/enable-reliable-messaging-for-big-data-apps-using-event-hubs/5-exercise-configure-applications-to-send-or-receive-messages-through-an-event-hub)
    
    [**Exercise - Evaluate the performance of the deployed Event Hub using the Azure portal**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/enable-reliable-messaging-for-big-data-apps-using-event-hubs/7-exercise-evaluate-the-performance-of-the-deployed-event-hub-using-the-azure-portal)
    
    *Applications that publish messages to Azure Event Hub very frequently will get the best performance using Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP) because it establishes a persistent socket.*
