1. [Choose a data storage approach in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/choose-storage-approach-in-azure/)

    **Structured data**<br/>
    Structured data, sometimes referred to as relational data, is data that adheres to a strict schema, so all of the data has the same fields or properties. The shared schema allows this type of data to be easily searched with query languages such as SQL (Structured Query Language). This capability makes this data style perfect for applications such as CRM systems, reservations, and inventory management.<br/>
    Structured data is straightforward in that it's easy to enter, query, and analyze. All of the data follows the same format. However, forcing a consistent structure also means evolution of the data is more difficult as each record has to be updated to conform to the new structure.
    
    **Semi-structured data**<br/>
    Semi-structured data is less organized than structured data, and is not stored in a relational format, as the fields do not neatly fit into tables, rows, and columns. Semi-structured data contains tags that make the organization and hierarchy of the data apparent - for example, key/value pairs. Semi-structured data is also referred to as non-relational or NoSQL data. The expression and structure of the data in this style is defined by a serialization language.<br/>
    - **XML**, or extensible markup language, was one of the first data languages to receive widespread support. It's text-based, which makes it easily human and machine-readable. In addition, parsers for it can be found for almost all popular development platforms. XML allows you to express relationships and has standards for schema, transformation, and even displaying on the web.
    - **JSON** – or JavaScript Object Notation, has a lightweight specification and relies on curly braces to indicate data structure. Compared to XML, it is less verbose and easier to read by humans. JSON is frequently used by web services to return data.
    - **YAML** – or YAML Ain’t Markup Language, is a relatively new data language that’s growing quickly in popularity in part due to its human-friendliness. The data structure is defined by line separation and indentation, and reduces the dependency on structural characters like parentheses, commas and brackets.<br/>
    
    **Unstructured data**<br/>
    The organization of unstructured data is ambiguous. Unstructured data is often delivered in files, such as photos or videos. The video file itself may have an overall structure and come with semi-structured metadata, but the data that comprises the video itself is unstructured. Therefore, photos, videos, and other similar files are classified as unstructured data.<br/>
    
    **What is a transaction?**<br/>
    A transaction is a logical group of database operations that execute together.<br/>
    Transactions are often defined by a set of four requirements, referred to as ACID guarantees. ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability:
    - **Atomicity** means a transaction must execute exactly once and must be atomic; either all of the work is done, or none of it is. Operations within a transaction usually share a common intent and are interdependent.
    - **Consistency** ensures that the data is consistent both before and after the transaction.
    - **Isolation** ensures that one transaction is not impacted by another transaction.
    - **Durability** means that the changes made due to the transaction are permanently saved in the system. Committed data is saved by the system so that even in the event of a failure and system restart, the data is available in its correct state.
    
    **OLTP vs OLAP**<br/>
    Transactional databases are often called OLTP (Online Transaction Processing) systems. OLTP systems commonly support lots of users, have quick response times, and handle large volumes of data. They are also highly available (meaning they have very minimal downtime), and typically handle small or relatively simple transactions.<br/>
    On the contrary, OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) systems commonly support fewer users, have longer response times, can be less available, and typically handle large and complex transactions.
    
    **Good to read** - [Choose a storage solution on Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/choose-storage-approach-in-azure/5-choose-the-right-azure-service-for-your-data)
