3. [Connect an app to Azure Storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/connect-an-app-to-azure-storage/)
    
    *A single Azure subscription can host up to 200 storage accounts, each of which can hold 500 TB of data. If you have a business case, you can talk to the Azure Storage team and get approval for up to 250 storage accounts in a subscription, which pushes your max storage up to 125 Petabytes!*
    
    **Blob storage**<br/>
    Azure Blob storage is an object storage solution optimized for storing massive amounts of unstructured data, such as text or binary data. Blob storage is ideal for:
    - Serving images or documents directly to a browser, including full static websites.
    - Storing files for distributed access.
    - Streaming video and audio.
    - Storing data for backup and restoration, disaster recovery, and archiving.
    - Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service.<br/>
    
    Azure Storage supports three kinds of blobs:
    |Blob type|Description|
    |---------|-----------|
    |Block blobs|Block blobs are used to hold text or binary files up to ~5 TB (50,000 blocks of 100 MB) in size. The primary use case for block blobs is the storage of files that are read from beginning to end, such as media files or image files for websites. They are named block blobs because files larger than 100 MB must be uploaded as small blocks, which are then consolidated (or committed) into the final blob.|
    |Page blobs|Page blobs are used to hold random-access files up to 8 TB in size. Page blobs are used primarily as the backing storage for the VHDs used to provide durable disks for Azure Virtual Machines (Azure VMs). They are named page blobs because they provide random read/write access to 512-byte pages.|
    |Append blobs|Append blobs are made up of blocks like block blobs, but they are optimized for append operations. These are frequently used for logging information from one or more sources into the same blob. For example, you might write all of your trace logging to the same append blob for an application running on multiple VMs. A single append blob can be up to 195 GB.|
    
    **Files**
    Azure Files enables you to set up highly available network file shares that can be accessed by using the standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. This means that multiple VMs can share the same files with both read and write access. You can also read the files using the REST interface or the storage client libraries. You can also associate a unique URL to any file to allow fine-grained access to a private file for a set period of time. File shares can be used for many common scenarios:
    - Storing shared configuration files for VMs, tools, or utilities so that everyone is using the same version.
    - Log files such as diagnostics, metrics, and crash dumps.
    - Shared data between on-premises applications and Azure VMs to allow migration of apps to the cloud over a period of time.
    
    [**Exercise - Create a new app to work with Azure storage**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/connect-an-app-to-azure-storage/3-exercise-create-your-app?pivots=csharp)
    
    [**Exercise - Create an Azure storage account**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/connect-an-app-to-azure-storage/4-exercise-create-storage-account)
    
    [**Exercise - Add the storage client library to your app**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/connect-an-app-to-azure-storage/6-exercise-add-the-azure-storage-lib?pivots=csharp)
    
    To work with data in a storage account, your app will need two pieces of data:
    - An access key - Each storage account has two unique access keys that are used to secure the storage account.
    - The REST API endpoint - The REST endpoint is a combination of your storage account name, the data type, and a known domain. For example:
        - Blobs - https://[name].blob.core.windows.net/
        - Queues - https://[name].queue.core.windows.net/
        - Tables - https://[name].table.core.windows.net/
        - Files - https://[name].file.core.windows.net/
    
    **Connection strings** - The simplest way to handle access keys and endpoint URLs within applications is to use storage account connection strings. A connection string provides all needed connectivity information in a single text string.<br/>
    *DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName={your-storage}; AccountKey={your-access-key}; EndpointSuffix=core.windows.net*<br/>
    
    *It's highly recommended that you periodically rotate your access keys to ensure they remain private, just like changing your passwords. If you are using the key in a server application, you can use an Azure Key Vault to store the access key for you. Key Vaults include support to synchronize directly to the Storage Account and automatically rotate the keys periodically. Using a Key Vault provides an additional layer of security, so your app never has to work directly with an access key.*
    
    **Shared access signatures (SAS)**<br/>
    Access keys are the easiest approach to authenticating access to a storage account. However they provide full access to anything in the storage account, similar to a root password on a computer.<br/>
    Storage accounts offer a separate authentication mechanism called shared access signatures that support expiration and limited permissions for scenarios where you need to grant limited access. You should use this approach when you are allowing other users to read and write data to your storage account.
