4. [Secure your Azure Storage account](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/secure-azure-storage-account/)

    **Encryption at rest**<br/>
    All data written to Azure Storage is automatically encrypted by Storage Service Encryption (SSE) with a 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cipher. This incurs no additional charges and doesn't degrade performance. It can't be disabled.<br/>
    For virtual machines (VMs), Azure lets you encrypt virtual hard disks (VHDs) by using Azure Disk Encryption. This encryption uses BitLocker for Windows images, and it uses dm-crypt for Linux.<br/>
    Azure Key Vault stores the keys automatically to help you control and manage the disk-encryption keys and secrets. So even if someone gets access to the VHD image and downloads it, they can't access the data on the VHD.
    
    **Encryption in transit**<br/>
    Keep your data secure by enabling transport-level security between Azure and the client. Always use HTTPS to secure communication over the public internet. When you call the REST APIs to access objects in storage accounts, you can enforce the use of HTTPS by requiring secure transfer for the storage account. After you enable secure transfer, connections that use HTTP will be refused. This flag will also enforce secure transfer over SMB by requiring SMB 3.0 for all file share mounts.
    
    **CORS support**<br/>
    Azure Storage supports cross-domain access through cross-origin resource sharing (CORS). CORS uses HTTP headers so that a web application at one domain can access resources from a server at a different domain. By using CORS, web apps ensure that they load only authorized content from authorized sources.
    CORS support is an optional flag you can enable on Storage accounts. The flag adds the appropriate headers when you use HTTP GET requests to retrieve resources from the Storage account.
    
    **Role-based access control**<br/>
    To access data in a storage account, the client makes a request over HTTP or HTTPS. Every request to a secure resource must be authorized. The service ensures that the client has the permissions required to access the data. You can choose from several access options. Arguably, the most flexible option is role-based access.<br/>
    Azure Storage supports Azure Active Directory and role-based access control (RBAC) for both resource management and data operations. To security principals, you can assign RBAC roles that are scoped to the storage account. Use Active Directory to authorize resource management operations, such as configuration. Active Directory is supported for data operations on Blob and Queue storage.<br/>
    To a security principal or a managed identity for Azure resources, you can assign RBAC roles that are scoped to a subscription, a resource group, a storage account, or an individual container or queue.
    
    **Auditing access**<br/>
    Auditing is another part of controlling access. You can audit Azure Storage access by using the built-in Storage Analytics service.<br/>
    Storage Analytics logs every operation in real time, and you can search the Storage Analytics logs for specific requests. Filter based on the authentication mechanism, the success of the operation, or the resource that was accessed.
    
    *Azure Storage accounts can create authorized apps in Active Directory to control access to the data in blobs and queues. This authentication approach is the best solution for apps that use Blob storage or Queue storage. For other storage models, clients can use a shared key, or shared secret. This authentication option is one of the easiest to use, and it supports blobs, files, queues, and tables.*
    
    **Shared Access Signatures(SAS)**<br/>
    A shared access signature is a string that contains a security token that can be attached to a URI. Use a shared access signature to delegate access to storage objects and specify constraints, such as the permissions and the time range of access.<br/>
    **Types of shared access signatures**
    - You can use a **service-level** shared access signature to allow access to specific resources in a storage account. You'd use this type of shared access signature, for example, to allow an app to retrieve a list of files in a file system or to download a file.
    - Use an **account-level** shared access signature to allow access to anything that a service-level shared access signature can allow, plus additional resources and abilities. For example, you can use an account-level shared access signature to allow the ability to create file systems.
    
    **Network access control**<br/>
    By default, storage accounts accept connections from clients on any network. To limit access to selected networks, you must first change the default action. You can restrict access to specific IP addresses, ranges, or virtual networks.
    
    **Advanced Threat Protection**<br/>
    Detecting threats to your data is an important part of security. You can check an audit trail for all activity against a storage account. But that will often only show you that an intrusion has already occurred. What you really want is a way to be notified when suspicious activity is happening. That's where the Advanced Threat Protection feature in Azure Storage can help.<br/>
    Advanced Threat Protection, now in public preview, detects anomalies in account activity. It then notifies you of potentially harmful attempts to access your account. You don't have to be a security expert or manage security monitoring systems to take advantage of this layer of threat protection.<br/>
    Currently, Advanced Threat Protection for Azure Storage is available for the Blob service. Security alerts are integrated with Azure Security Center. The alerts are sent by email to subscription admins.
    
    **Azure Data Lke Storage security features**<br/>
    Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 provides a first-class data lake solution that allows enterprises to pull together their data. It's built on Azure Blob storage, so it inherits all of the security features we've reviewed in this module.<br/>
    Along with role-based access control (RBAC), Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 provides access control lists (ACLs) that are POSIX-compliant and that restrict access to only authorized users, groups, or service principals. It applies restrictions in a way that's flexible, fine-grained, and manageable. Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 authenticates through Azure Active Directory OAuth 2.0 bearer tokens. This allows for flexible authentication schemes, including federation with Azure AD Connect and multifactor authentication that provides stronger protection than just passwords.<br/>
    More significantly, these authentication schemes are integrated into the main analytics services that use the data. These services include Azure Databricks, HDInsight, and SQL Data Warehouse. Management tools such as Azure Storage Explorer are also included. After authentication finishes, permissions are applied at the finest granularity to ensure the right level of authorization for an enterprise's big-data assets.<br/>
    The Azure Storage end-to-end encryption of data and transport layer protections complete the security shield for an enterprise data lake. The same set of analytics engines and tools can take advantage of these additional layers of protection, resulting in complete protection of your analytics pipelines.
