5. [Store application data with Azure Blob storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/store-app-data-with-azure-blob-storage/)
    
    **Azure Blob storage** is unstructured, meaning that there are no restrictions on the kinds of data it can hold. Blobs aren't limited to common file formats — a blob could contain gigabytes of binary data streamed from a scientific instrument, an encrypted message for another application, or data in a custom format for an app you're developing.<br/>
    Blobs are usually not appropriate for structured data that needs to be queried frequently. They have higher latency than memory and local disk and don't have the indexing features that make databases efficient at running queries. However, blobs are frequently used in combination with databases to store non-queryable data. For example, an app with a database of user profiles could store profile pictures in blobs.<br/>
    Blobs are used for data storage in many ways across all kinds of applications and architectures:
    - Apps that need to transmit large amounts of data using messaging system that supports only small messages. These apps can store data in blobs and send the blob URLs in messages.
    - Blob storage can be used like a file system for storing and sharing documents and other personal data.
    - Static web assets like images can be stored in blobs and made available for public download as if they were files on a web server.
    - Many Azure components use blobs behind the scenes. For example, Azure Cloud Shell stores your files and configuration in blobs, and Azure Virtual Machines uses blobs for hard-disk storage.<br/>
    
    In Blob storage, every blob lives inside a blob container. You can store an unlimited number of blobs in a container and an unlimited number of containers in a storage account. Containers are "flat" — they can only store blobs, not other containers.<br/>
    Blobs and containers support metadata in the form of name-value string pairs. Your apps can use metadata for anything you like: a human-readable description of a blob's contents to be displayed by the application, a string that your app uses to determine how to process the blob's data, etc.<br/>
    
    Apps using blobs as part of a storage scheme that includes a database often don't need to rely heavily on organization, naming, or metadata to indicate anything about their data. Such apps commonly use identifiers like GUIDs as blob names and reference these identifiers in database records. The app will use the database to determine where blobs are stored and the kind of data they contain.<br/>
    Other apps may use Azure Blob storage more like a personal file system, where container and blob names are used to indicate meaning and structure. Blob names in these kinds of apps will often look like traditional file names and include file name extensions like .jpg to indicate what kind of data they contain. They'll use virtual directories (see below) to organize blobs and will frequently use metadata tags to store information about blobs and containers.<br/>
    
    **Blob name prefixes (virtual directories)**<br/>
    Technically, containers are "flat" and do not support any kind of nesting or hierarchy. But if you give your blobs hierarchical names that look like file paths (such as finance/budgets/2017/q1.xls), the API's listing operation can filter results to specific prefixes. This allows you to navigate the list as if it was a hierarchical system of files and folders.<br/>
    This feature is often called virtual directories because some tools and client libraries use it to visualize and navigate Blob storage as if it was a file system. Each folder navigation triggers a separate call to list the blobs in that folder.
    
    **Public access and containers as security boundaries**<br/>
    By default, all blobs require authentication to access. However, individual containers can be configured to allow public downloading of their blobs without authentication. This feature supports many use cases, such as hosting static website assets and sharing files. This is because downloading blob contents works the same way as reading any other kind of data over the web: you just point a browser or anything that can make a GET request at the blob URL.<br/>
    Enabling public access is important for scalability because data downloaded directly from Blob storage doesn't generate any traffic in your server-side app. Even if you don't immediately take advantage of public access or if you will use a database to control data access via your application, plan on using separate containers for data you want to be publicly available.<br/>
    In addition to public access, Azure has a shared access signature feature that allows fine-grained permissions control on containers. Precision access control enables scenarios that further improve scalability, so thinking about containers as security boundaries in general is a helpful guideline.
    
    [**Exercise - Create Azure storage resources**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/store-app-data-with-azure-blob-storage/4-create-storage-resources)
    
    [**Exercise - Configure and initialize the client library**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/store-app-data-with-azure-blob-storage/5-configure-and-initialize-the-client-library)
    
    [**Exercise - Get blob references**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/store-app-data-with-azure-blob-storage/6-getting-blob-references)
    
    [**Exercise - Blob uploads and downloads**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/store-app-data-with-azure-blob-storage/7-blob-uploads-and-downloads)
    
    
